We have talked about that Agile is like
a toolbox, a philosophy, it is a
mindset and inside there are many and
there are some that for example Lean
Startup already know our students
and there is another that is very
well known that is Scrum.
Then I would like you to explain
a little about what Scrum helps,
that in the end what helps
you is...
It helps you with the methodology
to do things following the Agile
philosophy, right?
Let us take the example
of creating a website.
and correct.
See, at the end of Scrum is all
we have been talking to now about
Agile project management but
already materialized specifically
and what does the Scrum framework,
which is also to say that is
the most used worldwide,
will help you to concretize
that, right?
That is, all those ideas we have talked
about earlier, how do I embrace them
in something that helps me the day
to concretize it?
In this regard, we will talk about two
things in particular.
The first, some roles, defines certain
roles, that is, people who
will work in a Scrum environment
will have responsibilities
and we will talk in addition to
what are the events that will
allow me to make a continuous
flow within Scrum.
Scrum, let's say, helps us first
when we create the team, how to
form it, right?
How we make it, what roles should
there be inside.
and yes.
And then, through what events
or activities we're going to
constantly perform to ensure
we're doing incremental iterative
deliveries.
So, it's a matter of time,
right?
and yes.
What to do, stages
or stages.
and correct.
well is.
So I think it's best to start talking
about the framework as such
first.
The framework as such respects what
we talked about before, is an iterative
cycle through and is not blurred
a product of half or this part
of the system, no.
It is a potentially deliverable
product, ready to use to a customer.
That is between two and four weeks.
In addition, you will
be able to define three key roles.
That is, imagine, we started a project,
we want to do it with Scrum,
how do we conform that team?
We think of three roles.
First is the owner, the owner of the product.
This profile will be responsible
for defining what to do in the product
and in the order.
It is he who will tell you, guys,
the team, you have to do this
series of functionalities in this
order of importance.
Well, that's the key figure, because it'
s the one that's going to tell you what
the business is and in what direction to go.
Then there is the development team
or the Scrum team, the development
team, which will be intentionally
called so and have not put roles
or profiles apart, because they
see it as a multidisciplinary
team, this implies that you will
have within that team people of
all skills, people of
marketing, people of system,
people of commercial, etc.,
people of risk and will be
a multidisciplinary team
with all the roles that
are needed to complete
the product.
If I am making an application that
has legal consequences, then I
am putting a lawyer.
If I'm doing an application that has
a consequence of the risk point
of view, then I'm putting someone
legal and so I'm going.
And besides, we've already said, the
Product Owner and the development
team, there's the Scrum Master.
The Scrum Master will be
that figure who will be responsible
for making the framework
work.
What does this mean?
That will be in charge of meeting,
that the profiles are, that they
are delivered by cycles, that those
cycles are validated by the client,
will be like the guardian.
They are highly valued professionals.
To make an idea, today they are
professionals who are above 60
each year, because apart from this
work it requires a deep knowledge
of the framework, because
they also facilitate.
They are those who tell you how
much there will be meeting, make the
whole market, democratize, etc.
They are responsible for making everything
flow.
I have recaptured three roles.
The product owner who says what the
management, the work team who
runs the how and the Scrum Master
who will make sure that all this
happens within a Scrum framework.
Once we have that team and
we have the three roles,
the first thing to do is
to divide the project into
cycles and say after I want
to do it 15 days, I want
to do it 15 days or four weeks.
Always the recommendation is that
the less you cut the cycle, the better,
because you have more dating ability.
Once I have that defined, what I
will do is make the list of requirements
that I will have prioritized.
How does it work?
This is the second part of the events.
There is an event that will happen
at the beginning of a cycle called
Spring Planning, where the product
owner and the development team
will sit down and negotiate
what they will do in the
next 15 days.
Then the product owner will tell
you we're going to do these
three features and people commit
to delivering them.
This I want before we go on, we can
really shock the names, in the
bottom are things like it has
been called Kikoff, at the end
Scrum, as it is a mythology what
you do put their names, but it
is an initial meeting in which we
all sit down and define what is
what we are going to do.
This is the first of the events.
And that happens every cycle, everything
I'll tell happens always every
cycle.
The first session is called
Spring Planning, according
to Scrum.
It's a meeting where the product
owner and the development team come
together and agree what they're
going to deliver in the next 15 days.
Look at that there is an important
part that the fact that they remember
breaks a little that traditional
boss mentality by telling me
what to do but negotiate, with
which it is giving a more entrepreneurial
character to people.
Once I'm clear I'm going to
do the next 15 days, start
stealing the Spring and past
15 days is the second most important
meeting called the Spring
Review or the demo, the demo
day, the day when the team
will tell the Product Owner
what it has done.
In addition, the Product Owner
can often invite other stakeholders,
people who are involved
such.
What is done?
The product is counted, what has
been achieved and then feedback is issued.
I didn't like it, returning the
example of the website, I didn't like
to talk home, I don't accept American
Express cards and all that feedback
that is incorporated
comes back into the cycle.
That way you're constantly
planning, delivering and
re-planning in every Spring.
And there is a final meeting that starts
from the great features of Scrum that
have to do with continuous improvement,
concept lean, concept agile that
are the retrospective meetings
and is that apart from planning,
delivering a demo at the end of that
Spring and before starting the
next, the team meets all together
and say guys that we have done
well, because we have done well
this and this and this, because
we will continue doing it.
What did we not do these other
things too?
We have a plan of action to prevent
this from happening.
This is where you are focusing
on the customer, risk management
and continuous improvement.
Then let's say that Scrum does what
is materializing or making explicit
the whole philosophy already
through events and concrete roles.
And it is the most used
framework that has excellent
results worldwide.
I love the truth because, as you
said, it obliges us, that sometimes
we have to force ourselves with
methods to apply philosophies that
really work, but that if there
is no method, I like the methods
very much for this.
If there is no method, we do not.
Just, that is, one thing is to understand
a methodology, a philosophy,
and then you have the inability
to put it into practice.
I believe Scrum from the first minute
helps you by discipline to put it into
practice and not do it yours, because
in the end you do it yours and
it already enters your DNA.
That is, although it sounds a bit
friki, the names and such, no, no, apply
it because it obliges you to make good
decisions because it is thought,
it is born of a philosophy
that is appropriate.
and exact.
And what you do is make yourself
explicit that you follow that philosophy.